---
layout: post
title:  "Datawisp and Magicblock Partner to Bring No-code Analytics to On-chain Games"
categories: [ Infrastructure ]
image: assets/images/datawisp.png
tags: [featured]
---

We're thrilled to announce a new partnership between Magicblock, core contributor to the Solana Unity SDK, and [Datawisp](https://app.datawisp.io/magicblock), a no-code analytics platform for game developers. Magicblock’s infrastructure already makes it extremely convenient to build on-chain, permissionless and composable games on Solana. Going forward, game developers using the SDK will also benefit from the collaboration between Magicblock and Datawisp in the form of 1) a more streamlined data analytics process and 2) discounted access to the Datawisp platform once the open beta ends. Datawisp is currently free to all users. Most data-related tasks are complex and require either a data scientist or engineer to complete, even more so when dealing with smart contracts. This can be a problem, especially for small studios with limited resources. Datawisp’s easy to use no-code analytics platform lets anyone track and analyze key metrics on and off chain without needing to write code - freeing up developers to focus on building awesome games! By answering key questions such as “do players who own an NFT play differently than those who don’t?” game developers can make informed decisions that will help them grow their games and retain their players.

----


Andrea Fortugno, CEO of Magicblock
+ We're excited to partner with Datawisp to bring their powerful analytics platform to game developers building on Solana. Analytics is a top priority for our users and we believe a no-code approach will enable a more streamlined development experience for on-chain games.

Mo Hallaba, CEO of Datawisp
+ Both Datawisp and the Solana Unity SDK were built to save game developers time and allow them to focus on what matters most, building amazing games. We’re excited to partner up with MagicBlock and contribute to the Solana games ecosystem however we can.

----

We're extremely bullish on the Solana ecosystem and we are excited to see what innovative games and use cases can emerge from our synergic infrastructures.

Learn more and sign up to [Datawisp](https://app.datawisp.io/magicblock)