---
layout: post
title: "Zeebit: Transparent and provably fair games of chance"
categories: [Announcement]
image: assets/images/zeebit.jpg
tags: [featured]
---

Zeebit is a gaming platform (available at [Zeebit.io](https://zeebit.io/) ) focused on delivering a wide range of games of chance. The mantra of Zeebit has always been providing Web2-like user experiences, while being transparent, permissionless, fair and self-custodied. Despite its obsessive focus on users, Zeebit’s growth was hampered significantly earlier this year as a result of Solana’s congestion. Zeebit’s users could hardly land transactions. Even in scenarios where the network was not degraded, users' interactions can take anywhere between 0.5s to 1.5s – significantly slower than the off-chain products Zeebit is competing with.


## Challenge: Web2-Like UX with Solana Liquidity

To achieve its goal of delivering a decentralized and provably fair experience, Zeebit needed a solution that could:
  - Provide a fast, seamless user experience without the typical friction associated with blockchain transactions, like gas fees and transaction delays.
  - Maintain composability with Solana liquidity and interact seamlessly with the wider Solana ecosystem.
  - Scale to support a growing number of players, ensuring consistent real-time performance even as demand increased.
Traditional L2 approaches lead to liquidity fragmentation and increased user friction, both of which run counter to Zeebit’s objective of a Web2-like experience.


## Solution: Delegating into Ephemeral Rollups for Every Game interaction

To meet these challenges, Zeebit makes use of Ephemeral Rollups to power its games. From a user perspective, Ephemeral Rollups allow Zeebit to built the following flow:
- Players allocate funds to a smart contract account on Solana, signalling the intent to play.
- During  game play, some transactions are offloaded to the ephemeral validator for real-time interaction – ensuring that game logic can be processed with minimal latency.
- The experience is seamless and gasless – as Zeebit is acting as fee payer in the ephemeral node, giving players the fluid experience they expect without compromising decentralization.
- When the game ends, a game state gets committed on Solana where the payout happens, preserving liquidity and ensuring player funds remain on the L1.

By delegating each game into Ephemeral Rollups, Zeebit was able to achieve web2-like performance while maintaining the composability benefits of Solana.

## Results: An Immersive, Gasless, Fully On-Chain Experience

With MagicBlock’s Ephemeral Rollups, Zeebit successfully bridged the gap between Web2 performance and fully on-chain decentralization, achieving:

- **Web2-like User Experience**: Thanks to Ephemeral Rollups, Zeebit players enjoy a fast, gasless, and uninterrupted gaming experience that feels identical to traditional online games.
- **Solana Liquidity and Composability**: Zeebit’s games are on Solana, allowing them to leverage all the existing tokens and smart contracts without fragmentation or bridging.
- **Scalability**: The architecture scales seamlessly as the number of concurrent players grows, maintaining real-time interactivity without compromising performance.
- **Modularity**: Zeebit can introduce new game features and integrate with additional Solana primitives quickly and efficiently, keeping their gaming experiences fresh and engaging.

> “When congestion first hit, the project really took a major blow. While the situation did improve, it was clear the promise of perpetually and consistently high speed and low cost transaction may no longer be guaranteed on Solana Mainnet. MagicBlock’s Ephemeral Rollup model was a game-changer in enabling Zeebit’s vision. Web3 security and transparency with web2 UX was always Zeebit’s mandate, and MagicBlock is a key enabler of this mission. ”

Bayes, Zeebit founder

> “Zeebit built an extremely interesting use case that shows the interplays between Solana and Ephemeral Rollups. In order to launch successful dapps at scale we need the same attention to details and focus that Zeebit has for its product and we are proud to help them achieve this without leaving Solana ” —

Andrea Fortugno, MagicBlock cofounder & CEO

### About MagicBlock

MagicBlock is a high-performance engine for fully onchain games and applications. With Ephemeral Rollups, MagicBlock empowers developers to build real-time and composable decentralized applications.


