---
layout: post
title: "MagicBlock x Jito: Enhancing Security for Realtime Decentralized Applications on Solana "
categories: [Announcement]
image: assets/images/jito.png
tags: []
---

Today, we're thrilled to announce our partnership with [Jito Network](https://www.jito.network/) to integrate their restaking solution, strengthening the security of realtime, decentralized applications on Solana.

MagicBlock is a realtime network extension that enables developers to build performant fully onchain applications, from FOC games to high-frequency DEXes that can rival centralized trading venues.

Developers can now implement the entire logic of their apps on Solana and execute computations - that would traditionally run on centralized servers— in a specialized, temporary environment called an “Ephemeral Rollup,”. developers can achieve the **same performance of traditional servers while avoiding single points of failure**. This allows for **persistent, composable, and verifiable applications** that operate at the speed and scale needed for realtime, decentralized applications.

By integrating Jito (Re)staking and slashing, MagicBlock is adding an important layer of economic incentives that accelerate decentralization and enhances the security of the network.

> "Our goal at MagicBlock has always been to supercharge Solana’s capabilities while avoiding the fragmentations of L2s. Ephemeral Rollups give developers superpowers and additional optionality to build and scale Real-time apps on Solana, and this partnership with Jito allows us to secure and decentralize the network even further.”– Andrea Fortugno, Co-Founder of MagicBlock

## Unlocking Better Economic Incentives for Solana Builders

Jito's restaking infrastructure is designed to enable staked assets to secure multiple networks or services, thereby increasing their security and contributing to the overall robustness of these systems.
Through this partnership, MagicBlock developers can now benefit from:

- **Enhanced Security**: Restaking allows staked assets to secure Ephemeral Validators, who are kept accountable for their stake and must behave correctly to avoid getting slashed.
- **Increased Economic Utility**: By participating in restaking, users and tokenholders can unlock additional value from their assets, leading to an extra layer of economic incentives.
- **Seamless Integration**: The restaking framework integrates with existing developer workflows without added complexity, allowing for flexible, secure and scalable ER sessions that can easily manage staked assets.

> "We're excited about exploring Solana scaling solutions and the types of use cases they unlock for application developers,” says Hayden Tsutsui (business development, (re)staking). “By integrating Jito (Re)Staking, the main benefit of this partnership is two-fold: (1) MagicBlock's engine and ephemeral rollups will remain tethered to the base layer, and (2) Jito Network and its set of node operators will continue to push the boundaries of providing a secure foundation for use cases beyond the L1."

## A Shared Vision for Performance & Decentralization

We believe that **Web3 should match the performance of Web2, without sacrificing decentralization**.

This collaboration isn’t just about enhancing security—it’s about empowering developers with superpowers, allowing them to build secure, realtime applications directly on Solana while avoiding the fragmentations of L2s and single-point-of-failures of web2 infrastructure.

Over the coming months, we’ll explore in detail the different modules related to the network security, including releasing staking and restaking functionalities—stay tuned.
